Solana Price Prediction Application Technical Reference Guide
TAAPI Pro API (Full Paid Plan)
Technical Indicators: TAAPI.io offers 200+ technical analysis indicators across categories like momentum, oscillators, trend, volatility, etc. (e.g. RSI, MACD, EMA, VWAP, Bollinger Bands, ATR, Stochastic, Ichimoku Cloud, pattern recognition signals)
taapi.io
. All plans (including Pro) have access to the full indicator list. Indicators are referenced by endpoint name (e.g. rsi, macd, bbands, etc.), and each has documentation on required params and example calls
taapi.io
.
Timeframe & Parameters: Supported candle intervals include 1m, 5m, 15m, 30m, 1h, 2h, 4h, 12h, 1d, 1w. Every API request must include:
secret: your API key (query param secret=YOUR_SECRET).
exchange: data source (e.g. binance, binancefutures, or other supported exchanges).
symbol: market symbol in BASE/QUOTE format (e.g. SOL/USDT, uppercase).
interval: timeframe as above (e.g. 1h for hourly, 1d for daily).
Optional params: period (indicator period length, e.g. RSI period, default 14); backtrack (integer, to get value n candles ago); results (to fetch a series of past values – e.g. results=10 returns an array of 10 historical values); chart=heikinashi (to use Heikin Ashi candles instead of regular, Pro plan only); and date-range filters fromTimestamp/toTimestamp (Unix epoch strings) for historical queries. By default, the API returns the latest real-time value for the indicator.
Example API Call: For instance, to get the 1-hour RSI for BTC/USDT on Binance, you would call:
sql
Copy
GET https://api.taapi.io/rsi?secret=MY_SECRET&exchange=binance&symbol=BTC/USDT&interval=1h
This returns JSON like {"value": 65.73211579249397}. You can adjust parameters to fetch historical RSI (e.g. add backtrack=5 for 5 hours ago, or results=10 for last 10 values).
Rate Limits & Throughput: The Pro plan allows up to 150,000 API calls per day and up to 3 symbols per request (batch calls). The higher Expert tier allows 400k calls/day and 10 symbols per request. All indicators are available on any paid plan; higher plans mainly raise the call limits and data access (e.g. real-time stock data). TAAPI’s bulk query feature allows requesting multiple indicators and/or multiple symbols in one JSON payload (reducing overhead). For example, you can POST a JSON with a list of indicators (price, RSI, EMA(200), etc.) to retrieve all in one response.
Authentication: Authentication is via the secret key in the query string (or it can be sent as an HTTP header Authorization: Bearer YOUR_SECRET as an alternative). The key is obtained from your account dashboard (or via the email on signup). Ensure you keep this key secure.
Data and Order Book: TAAPI provides indicator values and price data in real-time from supported exchanges, but it is not an order book or trades feed API. (It leverages exchange price feeds under the hood but does not expose full order book depth). The closest is the price endpoint (to get the current price for a symbol on a given exchange). For order book or market depth, you would use the exchange’s native API. TAAPI’s focus is derived metrics: e.g. moving averages, oscillators, pattern detection, etc., computed from OHLCV data. It also supports historical data backtesting: e.g. you can query an indicator’s past values up to X candles back (Pro allows ~300 candles, Expert 2000 candles via the results param).
LunarCrush Discover API (v1 & v2 Endpoints)
Overview: LunarCrush provides crypto social intelligence data – aggregating social media metrics, sentiment, and engagement alongside market data. Under the Discover plan, you have access to both legacy v1 and modern v2 API endpoints. The API returns real-time metrics about cryptocurrencies’ social volume, sentiment, scores, influencers, and more. An API key (Bearer token) is required for Discover-tier endpoints. All requests are typically made to https://lunarcrush.com/api/v2/... or the newer v3/v4 endpoints if supported (but Discover may limit to v2). Authentication is via HTTP header, e.g. Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY.
v2 Endpoints (Discover Plan): The v2 API is query-based. Key endpoints include:
assets – General data for one or multiple assets. This provides each coin’s details, market stats and social metrics (price, volume, market cap, social mentions, sentiment, etc.) and can return time-series data for metrics. (In older usage, this was accessed with e.g. ?data=assets&symbol=BTC,ETH,... in the query.)
market – Market summary for all assets (similar to LunarCrush front-end “Markets” page). This includes a snapshot of top coins with metrics and a few recent time-series points for each.
global – Aggregated global crypto metrics (total market metrics across all tracked coins). This may include total market cap, total volume, BTC dominance, etc.
feeds – Retrieves social feeds: posts, news articles, and shared links for one or more coins. You can filter by coin symbol to get relevant news/posts.
influencers – List of top influencer accounts for a given coin or overall, ranked by engagement impact (Twitter, Reddit data).
influencer – Details on a specific influencer (e.g. a specific Twitter account’s stats and recent posts).
(Meta endpoints) meta – Metadata about all assets (coin list, symbols); exchanges – metadata of exchanges; market_pairs – trading pairs info, etc. These are more relevant in higher tiers but Discover may include basic meta.
coin of the day – there are also fun endpoints like get_coin_of_the_day which returns LunarCrush’s “coin of the day” and its history.
Example: To fetch data for a specific coin like Solana, you could call the assets endpoint by symbol. In v2 query form:
sql
Copy
https://api.lunarcrush.com/v2?data=assets&symbol=SOL&interval=day&data_points=30
(assuming the API supports interval and data_points params for time series). This would return Solana’s metrics (price, volume, social scores) and possibly an array of the last 30 daily points if requested.
v1 Endpoints: The older v1 API (if still supported under Discover) had similar data but structured differently. For instance, it might have exposed specific endpoints for social metrics or required different query parameters. (Earlier versions of LunarCrush’s API allowed some public access without a key.) Generally, if you have Discover access, using v2 is recommended for a richer, unified interface. The Discover plan’s naming suggests it’s geared towards discovery and limited use, possibly capping the number of calls per day and accessible metrics.
Key Metrics & Data Provided: LunarCrush returns a variety of social and market metrics for each coin. For example, for each asset you can get: price data (and % change), volume, market cap, social volume (number of posts/mentions), average sentiment score (positive vs negative sentiment from posts), Galaxy Score™ (proprietary score 0-100 blending social + market performance), AltRank™, volatility, and even news article count. For instance, one analysis found Bitcoin’s social metrics like social_volume, news mentions, and Galaxy Score in the data output: “Bitcoin ... Galaxy Score: 58.5 ... Social Volume: 5744 ... News: 2 ...”. These metrics update frequently (LunarCrush aggregates data in real-time or on short intervals). Social volumes and sentiment are updated multiple times per hour, whereas price-related data updates in real-time via market feeds.
Data Granularity & Time-Series: The API can provide historical time-series for certain metrics. In v2, the assets endpoint supports an interval parameter (e.g. day, hour) and data_points to retrieve time-series data (e.g. social volume over last 30 days, price history, etc.). The Discover plan likely allows basic time-series (possibly limited in length or interval). For example, you could request daily data for the past 7 days for social metrics of SOL. The update frequency for most metrics is near real-time; Galaxy Score and AltRank are recalculated throughout the day as new data comes in, and social metrics like volume or sentiment are continuously updated (with slight delays for data collection/processing).
Usage & Examples: Common use cases under Discover tier: querying coins/:symbol (via assets) to get the latest metrics for that coin; retrieving social volume and sentiment trends via time series (to feed into your model features); checking galaxy_score for a coin (e.g. high Galaxy Score may indicate bullish combined social+market outlook); pulling news_count or feed items to see news momentum. Headers must include your API key: e.g. Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_KEY>. The Discover plan might limit the number of calls per hour, so check LunarCrush’s API dashboard for rate limits.
CryptoRank Basic API (v2)
Overview: CryptoRank.io provides a comprehensive data API for market analytics. The Basic plan (v2) gives access to core endpoints covering global market stats, individual cryptocurrencies data, categories, tags, and more. All requests require your API key (via header X-API-KEY or query param). Base URL is https://api.cryptorank.io/v2/.
Endpoints (v2): Key REST endpoints available in Basic plan include:
/v2/global – Global crypto market statistics (total market cap, 24h volume, BTC dominance, number of active coins, etc). Use this to fetch overall market indicators (e.g. for adding BTC dominance or total volume features).
/v2/currencies – List of cryptocurrencies with their current market data. This returns an array of coins (possibly paginated) with fields like price, market cap, volume, supply, etc. You can filter or query specific assets by symbol or ID here (e.g. /v2/currencies?symbols=SOL,BTC).
/v2/currencies/{id} – Detailed info for a specific coin by ID. Each currency is identified by an ID (e.g. Solana might have an ID like 5663 as seen in logs). This gives full details for that coin: current data, potentially historical snapshot or metadata. Basic plan allows both ID-based and symbol-based retrieval. If you don’t know the ID, you can use symbol via the list or search.
/v2/currencies/categories – List of all coin categories (sectors or groupings of projects, like DeFi, NFTs, Layer1, etc.). Each category likely has an ID and name. You can see which category a coin belongs to (coins have categoryIds). This endpoint helps to browse categories or feed into other calls (e.g. filter currencies by category).
/v2/currencies/tags – List of all tags in use. Tags are like attributes or special groupings (e.g. “NFT”, “Metaverse”, “Yield Farming”). Similar to categories, you can get tag IDs and names. Some endpoints might allow filtering by tag as well.
/v2/currencies/sparkline – (If provided) This likely returns a sparkline (small timeframe price series) for coins. For example, a 7-day hourly price series used for quick charts. It might require parameters like coin ID and interval. (In CryptoRank’s web UI, sparkline data is often a small array of prices – the API likely provides this for embedding trendlines.)
/v2/currencies/full-metadata – This endpoint provides extended metadata for all coins or a given coin. “Full metadata” would include things like project description, website, social links, explorers, launch date, etc., beyond just price numbers. It could be a large dataset. Basic plan likely includes a subset or requires specific coin ID to fetch.
Other endpoints: /v2/categories or /v2/tags might also exist (mirroring the above under a different path). The CryptoRank v2 API is extensive, but Basic plan focuses on read-access to public data (not premium analytics).
ID vs Symbol Access: Most endpoints accept either an ID in the path or a query param for symbols. For example, you can GET /v2/currencies/5663 for Solana by ID, or possibly /v2/currencies?symbols=SOL to retrieve by symbol. The API responses often include the coin’s id, so you can store IDs after an initial lookup. Working example: to get Solana’s details you could do:
vbnet
Copy
GET /v2/currencies/5663   (with X-API-KEY header)
This would return Solana’s data. Or to search by symbol:
bash
Copy
GET /v2/currencies?search=solana
(if supported) to find matching assets and their IDs.
Date/Time Formats: All timestamps in CryptoRank’s API are returned in ISO 8601 format (UTC) by default (e.g. "2025-06-17T14:30:00.000Z"). When providing input dates (for endpoints that accept date ranges or start/end parameters), you can typically use either an ISO 8601 string or a Unix timestamp in milliseconds. For example, an endpoint for historical data might accept from=2024-01-01T00:00:00Z or from=1704067200000 (ms since epoch). The documentation notes that ISO format with Z (Zulu) is expected, or milliseconds since epoch, so ensure you use the correct format as required.
Examples and Parameters: Suppose CryptoRank has an endpoint for historical price or sparkline: e.g. /v2/currencies/5663/history?interval=1d&from=2024-01-01T00:00:00Z. This might return daily OHLC data from Jan 1, 2024 to present. Check whether interval expects strings like 1h,1d (as hint suggests default "1d" for daily). Another example: /v2/currencies?categoryId=10 could list all coins in category ID 10. Always include your API key. The X-API-KEY is the header to authenticate; on Basic plan, you have a limited quota (e.g. a certain number of credits or calls per hour/day). Each endpoint has a credit cost (often 1 credit per request for lists up to 100 items, etc.) – monitor your usage on CryptoRank’s dashboard.
Use Cases: Use the /global endpoint for features like total market cap and BTC dominance (alternative to CoinGecko) – e.g., it returns JSON with fields for total_market_cap, volume_24h, btc_dominance, etc. Use /currencies/:id to get Solana’s latest market data to feed your model (price, market cap rank, etc). Use categories/tags to classify coins (if your model wants to include categorical features like “DeFi coin or not”). The Basic plan is sufficient for pulling market cap, volume, and price history for major coins, which you might use as features in prediction, as well as Bitcoin dominance (which can serve as a sentiment indicator). CryptoRank’s data is updated in real-time or near real-time for prices and aggregated periodically for global stats. (Market cap and volume are updated continuously; dominance is computed from those).
Free & Supplemental Data APIs
In addition to the paid sources above, you should leverage free APIs for broader market context:
Fear & Greed Index (Alternative.me): The Fear & Greed Index is a daily sentiment indicator (0–100, with higher = greed). It’s available via a free API from alternative.me. Endpoint: GET https://api.alternative.me/fng/ (no auth needed). By default this returns the latest index value. You can add params like ?limit=10 to get the last 10 days, &format=json or csv, and &date_format=world or us if needed. For example, a response:
json
Copy
{
  "name": "Fear and Greed Index",
  "data": [
    {
      "value": "40",
      "value_classification": "Fear",
      "timestamp": "1687008000",
      "time_until_update": "68499"
    }
  ]
}
This indicates the index value = 40 (“Fear”). Usage: You can pull this daily and use it as a feature for market sentiment. The index is updated once every 24 hours (next update timestamp is given as time_until_update seconds). The API is simple and doesn’t require keys, but remember to credit alternative.me if used (as per their terms).
CoinGecko API (Market Data): CoinGecko offers a free REST API for a wide range of data with no API key required. Key endpoints for global metrics: /api/v3/global – returns total crypto market cap, total 24h volume, market_cap_percentage for BTC/ETH (dominance), number of active coins/markets, etc. For example, it returns a JSON with "market_cap_percentage": { "btc": 47.8, "eth": 16.9, ...} which indicates BTC dominance ~47.8%. This endpoint is updated about every 10 minutes. You can also use CoinGecko for individual coin data: e.g. /api/v3/coins/solana returns Solana’s detailed data including market cap, current price, circulating supply, and even developer stats. Another useful endpoint: /api/v3/coins/markets with query params (vs_currency=USD&ids=solana,etc) to get current price, volume, market_cap in one call for a list of coins. CoinGecko’s API is very robust for supplementary data like historical market cap or volume (they have /coins/{id}/market_chart to get historical price, market cap, volume timeseries). These can help with features like historical volatility or volume trends if needed. Rate limiting is generous for free tier (around 50-100 calls/minute).
Solana RPC / On-Chain Data: To incorporate Solana-specific blockchain stats (network performance indicators):
Transactions Per Second (TPS): Solana’s current TPS isn’t directly an API endpoint, but you can compute it from the RPC. Use the JSON RPC method getRecentPerformanceSamples on a Solana node. This returns an array of performance samples (number of transactions and slots in the last 60s window). By dividing numTransactions by samplePeriodSecs (usually 60), you get an approximate TPS. You can call this via an RPC URL (e.g. public Solana RPC or a provider like QuickNode). Alternatively, some blockchain explorers publish current TPS (but might not have an API). Using the RPC method is most direct: it might require running a small script to fetch and calculate TPS periodically.
Active Accounts: Solana’s active address count (e.g. daily active addresses) is a metric you may derive or get from analytics services. The Solana RPC doesn’t have “active accounts” in one call (you’d have to scan transactions). However, third-party data sources or dashboards (like Solana Beach or Artemis) track daily active addresses. If you need this for modeling, you might use an unofficial source or manually compute from transaction data. For simplicity, consider using Token Terminal or Artemis API if available (they often have daily active users for blockchains). In absence of an API, note that Solana had ~4.4M daily active addresses at peak (as of TokenTerminal). You might treat active addresses as a constant or external input updated occasionally.
Whale Transactions: To monitor large transfers on Solana, you can use a combination of on-chain queries and explorer APIs. Solana’s RPC has getLargestAccounts which returns the top 20 accounts by SOL balance. From that, you can track addresses of known whales. For each whale address, you could use RPC (getSignaturesForAddress and then getTransaction) to watch for large movements. This is complex to do continuously. Alternatively, use a service like Solscan’s API or Helius API: Solscan offers an API where you can get recent transactions for an account or track large movements (they might have an endpoint for transactions above a certain size). There isn’t a built-in “whale alert” API for Solana, so you might implement a custom watcher: e.g., periodically check if any of the top accounts decreased by >X SOL (indicating a whale transfer out). Another approach: check Solana’s Twitter bot alerts (some bots tweet large transfers). In summary, while Solana Explorer APIs aren’t public, you can leverage RPC calls and third-party APIs to glean whale activity. This is an advanced integration – for your app’s scope, you might decide to include a simpler metric like the SOL whale concentration (distribution) or track just the largest account (e.g. Solana Foundation wallet) net flows via RPC.
Combining these supplementary sources: The Fear & Greed index can serve as a feature capturing general crypto sentiment, CoinGecko global data provides market context (dominance, total cap) to normalize your predictions, and Solana on-chain stats (TPS, active users) can provide network health indicators for the Solana ecosystem (which may correlate with price momentum).
Machine Learning & Time-Series Forecasting Techniques
When building the predictive model, consider a mix of classical and modern ML techniques tailored to time-series:
LSTM / GRU Neural Networks: Leverage recurrent neural networks like Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) or Gated Recurrent Units for sequential price data. Best practices include scaling your input features, using appropriate sequence lengths (e.g. using the past 60 days of data to predict the next day), and adding relevant features (technical indicators, volumes, sentiment scores) as additional input channels. LSTMs are good at capturing temporal dependencies and patterns (like cycles or trends) in the data. To avoid overfitting, use techniques like dropout regularization and early stopping. It’s often helpful to include not just price but also technical indicators (e.g. RSI, EMA) as features – LSTMs can then learn to weigh those signals. GRUs are a lighter gated RNN that can sometimes train faster with similar performance. In crypto, LSTMs/GRUs have been widely used and have shown ability to model the volatility (though they may struggle with sudden regime changes). Tip: When training, use sliding window validation (e.g. walk-forward testing) due to time-series nature.
Temporal Fusion Transformer (TFT): The TFT is a state-of-the-art deep learning model for multi-horizon forecasting that uses attention mechanisms. It can handle multiple inputs (static metadata, known future inputs like calendar features, and historical series) and provides interpretability by design. In essence, TFT combines an LSTM encoder with a Transformer decoder, allowing it to focus on relevant times and features via attention. This model excels if you have many features (market indicators, on-chain metrics, macro data) and need to predict a range of future time steps (say, predict price 1 day, 3 days, 7 days ahead simultaneously). TFT also inherently allows feature importance output through attention weights, helping explain which indicators were most influential. When using TFT, ensure you have a substantial dataset (it’s heavier than LSTM). It’s known to outperform traditional RNNs in many cases by avoiding the error accumulation of iterative predictions and handling temporal patterns and seasonality through its attention layers. Several studies have applied TFT to Bitcoin price forecasting with success, citing its accuracy and interpretability improvements over plain LSTMs.
Ensemble Learning (Hybrid Models): Combining models can often yield better results. For example, an XGBoost + LSTM ensemble can capture different aspects of the data. One approach: use LSTM to model the sequential trend and XGBoost to model the residual errors or additional features. For instance, an ensemble pipeline might predict next-day price with an LSTM, then feed that prediction along with other features into an XGBoost to fine-tune the final output. Another approach is to have XGBoost and LSTM independently predict and then average or weight their predictions. Research has shown that tree-based models (like XGBoost) are good at handling structured features (technical indicators, sentiment scores on a particular day) while LSTMs excel at capturing time-dependent patterns. A hybrid model in a stock prediction context demonstrated improved accuracy by leveraging LSTM for sequential dependence and XGBoost for feature interaction in the final stage
github.com
. Tip: When training XGBoost, you can include features like yesterday’s LSTM-predicted trend or use XGBoost to predict an adjustment factor to the LSTM output. Always use proper cross-validation (time-split) to validate ensemble performance, as ensembles can overfit if not carefully tuned.
Generative Models (GANs) for Scenarios: You might explore Generative Adversarial Networks to create synthetic data or scenario simulations. In crypto, Time-series GANs can generate plausible price paths under different conditions (e.g. simulate what price trajectories under certain volatility might look like). This can help stress-test your model or augment training data. For example, you could train a GAN on historical returns and then generate synthetic sequences to train your predictor (though ensure the GAN outputs are realistic). Another use is scenario generation: e.g., simulate a sudden 20% drop scenario vs a steady growth scenario and see how the predictive model reacts. Some advanced research uses GANs in conjunction with forecasting models to improve robustness by training on both real and GAN-generated series. If implementing, consider architectures like Conditional GANs where you condition on a sentiment or on-chain metric to generate price series consistent with that condition. This area is complex, but even a simplified use – such as using a VAE/GAN to augment data – could be beneficial if your dataset is limited.
Other Techniques: Don’t overlook simpler models as baselines: e.g. ARIMA or Prophet for price trend, or even a moving average model. Sometimes ensembles of a statistical model and a machine learning model yield the best result. Also, Gradient Boosted Trees (XGBoost/LightGBM) alone on lagged features can be quite powerful for short-term price direction forecasting – they can pick up patterns in technical indicators and macro variables without extensive hyperparameter tuning.
In summary, for crypto forecasting, a stacked approach is wise: start with robust features (technical indicators from TAAPI, social sentiment from LunarCrush, on-chain metrics, etc.), experiment with LSTM/GRU for sequence modeling and tree models for feature-driven boosts, and consider advanced architectures like TFT for multi-feature, multi-horizon tasks. Always evaluate on recent data, as crypto markets shift regimes (what worked in 2021 may differ in 2023), and retrain models periodically with new data.
Financial Astrology and Market Timing
Some traders incorporate financial astrology – analyzing celestial cycles – as an unconventional feature in forecasting. While controversial, it may add a unique dimension to your analysis:
Tools for Ephemeris Calculations: To quantitatively include astro data, you can use libraries like Swiss Ephemeris (a reputable astrological calculation engine) or the Astronomy Engine library. Swiss Ephemeris (via Python pyswisseph or other wrappers) can compute planetary positions, retrograde statuses, moon phases, etc., for given dates. For example, using Swiss Ephemeris you can find when Mercury goes retrograde by checking the planet’s velocity (negative speed indicates retrograde). Astronomy Engine (available in JavaScript via NPM, by Cosinekitty) is another excellent library that provides high-precision positions of sun, moon, planets and can directly calculate events like lunar phases, eclipses, and planetary conjunctions. This library supports multiple languages and outputs data in a programmatic way. For instance, you can call its functions to get Moon phase angle or the next full moon date, find when two planets are at a certain angle (aspects), or when a planet enters a new zodiac sign. It essentially offers “ephemeris as a service” – e.g., functions like Astronomy.MoonPhase() to get current phase, or SearchMoonQuarter() to find next quarter moon. Using these tools, you can generate features such as: current moon phase (e.g. a value from 0=new moon to 1=full moon), is Mercury/Venus retrograde (boolean), distance of Jupiter from a key angle, etc., for each day.
Astrological Features Examples: Historically, moon phases have been studied in markets. Some traders claim equity markets perform better around new moons than full moons. In crypto, anecdotal evidence exists: for example, one crypto astrologer found that Bitcoin tended to have stronger returns during the waning moon phase (full moon towards new moon) than the waxing phase. He reported ~350% better average performance in waning periods over a multi-year sample (though statisticians caution correlation vs causation). You might create a binary feature for waxing vs waning moon, or days to next full moon, to test if there’s any measurable effect on Solana’s price. Another commonly cited factor is planetary retrogrades: e.g., Mercury retrograde is often associated with confusion in markets – you could flag if Mercury is retrograde. Similarly, some look at major planetary aspects (e.g., a Saturn-Uranus square, which in 2021 corresponded with high volatility in crypto). With an ephemeris, you can compute if certain aspects are within orb on a given date and use that as a categorical feature.
Historical Usage: Financial astrology has a legacy from practitioners like W.D. Gann and Louise McWhirter. Modern analysis (as seen on social media and Wired’s report) shows a niche following uses these techniques for crypto. While it might not be scientifically predictive, it could be interesting for your app’s users. For transparency, if you include astrology-based predictions, treat them as experimental. However, having the ability to display, say, “Mercury enters Gemini on X date” or “Next full moon in 3 days” along with your model’s prediction can enrich your app’s appeal.
Implementation: Use astronomy-engine in Node/JS to integrate with your React front-end easily (it can compute positions on the fly in the browser or server). For example, to get moon phase: Astronomy.MoonPhase(date) returns an angle – 0 or 360 is new moon, ~180 is full moon. To get planetary positions, you can get ecliptic longitude for each planet and then derive zodiac sign (divide longitude by 30°). For retrograde, compute position at two close times – if it’s decreasing, the planet is retrograde. Swiss Ephemeris is more comprehensive but might require a bit more setup (and possibly a data file). Astronomy-engine is open source and very convenient, covering all basics (phases, eclipses, equinoxes, planet elongations, etc.).
In summary, if you choose to incorporate “astro” features or visualizations: moon phases and planetary retrogrades are two of the more popular correlations people talk about. They might not significantly improve a model’s numerical accuracy, but could provide novel insights or at least an engaging visualization layer in your app. (For example, showing past price with full/new moons marked could prompt interesting user discussions.)
Model Explainability & Visualization Tools
To build trust in the model’s predictions and present results clearly, focus on explainability and effective charting:
SHAP for Feature Importance: Utilize SHAP (SHapley Additive Explanations) to explain your model’s outputs. SHAP assigns each feature a contribution value for a given prediction, indicating how it pushed the prediction above or below the average. For example, if your model predicts a price jump, SHAP might show that “Social sentiment = Very positive” and “Volume increase” had the highest positive contribution, whereas “High RSI” contributed negatively (implying an overbought condition) to the prediction. There are SHAP libraries for many frameworks (Tree models and deep learning). For XGBoost or Random Forest, you can use shap.TreeExplainer(model).shap_values(data). For an LSTM/NN (TensorFlow/PyTorch), you can use DeepExplainer or GradientExplainer on a simplified model. SHAP is particularly useful to rank which factors are driving the model’s forecasts. In time-series, you might compute SHAP values for each time step’s features to see, say, at time T, the increase in Google Trends or developer activity had large positive SHAP value for the prediction. This helps debug and also provides content for explainability UI (e.g. “Model believes social volume and Fear/Greed index are key drivers of this week’s prediction.”).
LIME for Local Explanations: LIME (Local Interpretable Model-Agnostic Explanations) is another tool to explain individual predictions. It perturbs input features and trains a simple surrogate model to approximate the complex model locally. For instance, for a particular prediction where your model says “SOL will go up 5%”, LIME could tell you that when it artificially lowered the “Galaxy Score” feature or removed the “volume” spike, the prediction changed significantly, implying those features were influential. LIME works well for tabular models – you could treat your last known data point’s features as a tabular input and get LIME explanation for the predicted price change. Both SHAP and LIME complement each other: SHAP gives a global view as well as local exact Shapley values, whereas LIME gives an intuitive linear approximation of the model around that instance. Using these in your application can allow you to show “feature importance cards” explaining the model’s reasoning.
Charting Libraries for Data Visualization: To present historical prices, predictions, and technical indicators, you can use robust charting libraries:
Recharts (React) – A library built on D3 specifically for React. It offers composable components for line charts, area charts, etc. You can overlay price candlesticks with indicator lines (e.g. a line for predicted price vs actual). Recharts is great for interactive charts in a React app, allowing tooltips, zoom, etc. Its API makes it easy to bind data arrays to chart components. For example, you can have a <LineChart> with multiple <Line> elements for actual price, moving average, predicted price, each styled differently.
Chart.js – A popular JavaScript chart library that can be used via a React wrapper (like react-chartjs-2). Chart.js is straightforward for plots and supports various chart types. You can use it to plot time-series data with customization. For instance, you could use Chart.js to draw the price candlestick chart and then overlay buy/sell signals or moon phase markers (by using custom annotations or point markers). It’s relatively easy to configure and has good performance for moderate dataset sizes.
Plotly – Plotly (via Plotly.js or Python’s plotly library) is powerful for interactive, publication-quality charts. Plotly excels in allowing users to hover, zoom, and even toggle series on/off dynamically. You might use Plotly to create an interactive dashboard: e.g., a candlestick chart of SOL’s price with volume bars beneath, and lines for technical indicators. Plotly also can plot SHAP values or feature importance bars for explainability charts. If using Python, you can generate Plotly figures and embed them in a React frontend via Plotly’s JS library. Plotly is heavier than Chart.js, but if you need rich interactivity (like range sliders or 3D charts), it’s a good choice.
All three libraries can handle overlaying multiple data series. For example, to overlay indicators on price:
With Recharts: use multiple <Line type="monotone" dataKey="EMA_20"> etc., on the same <LineChart> along with a <YAxis> for price.
With Chart.js: define multiple datasets in one chart config, each with its own yAxis if needed (Chart.js allows dual axes).
With Plotly: simply add multiple traces to the figure (e.g. one trace for price candles, one for RSI in a separate subplot, etc.).
Visualization of Predictions vs Actual: For the app, an effective visualization is to show a chart with past actual prices and future predicted trajectory. For instance, plot the last N days of actual Solana price, then a dotted line or different color line for the model’s forecast for the next M days. Users can immediately see where the model expects the price to go. Additionally, adding prediction intervals (confidence bounds) is a good practice – e.g., a shaded region representing a 90% prediction interval (if your model can generate or you estimate via simulations). This communicates uncertainty.
Overlay Events: Since you might integrate astrology or on-chain events, consider overlaying those on charts as icons or vertical lines. For example, mark each full moon with a moon icon on the date axis (just as a fun visual), or mark when a large whale transfer happened with an arrow. Libraries like Plotly and Chart.js allow annotations. This can help users correlate model predictions or price moves with external events visually.
Dashboard UI: Aim for a dashboard where the top has a price chart (with overlays), and below you might have smaller charts: one for a technical indicator (say RSI over time with overbought/oversold zones), one for social sentiment over time, etc. React makes it easy to compose these. Recharts, for instance, can make small sparklines or bar charts for volume.
In short, pick the charting library that best fits your tech stack and interactivity needs (Recharts for tight React integration, Chart.js for simplicity, Plotly for advanced interaction). For explainability, incorporate SHAP or LIME outputs into the UI – perhaps a tooltip or a sidebar that updates with “Top 5 factors influencing this prediction” when a user hovers over a prediction point, backed by SHAP values your backend computed. This not only improves user trust but also distinguishes your app by making the AI’s reasoning transparent.
Replit Integration & Deployment
Deploying the solution on Replit requires integrating the backend, frontend, and keeping credentials secure:
Managing Secrets: Replit provides a Secrets manager (lock icon in the sidebar) where you can store API keys and tokens as environment variables. Add your TAAPI, LunarCrush, CryptoRank API keys here rather than hardcoding them. In code, you can access them via process.env.TAAPI_SECRET (Node.js) or similar. The secrets are encrypted and not exposed in your public Repl. This is equivalent to a .env file. Example: Open the Secrets panel, add a key named LUNARCRUSH_KEY with your key value – it will then be available in your Node/Express process. According to Replit docs, the secrets tool stores info as encrypted env vars which your app can read at runtime. This way, even if someone forks your Repl, they won’t get your actual API keys. Be mindful not to log these secrets. Also, avoid committing keys to GitHub if you export your project – always use env vars.
Express + React Setup: In a Replit Node.js environment, you can serve both the Express backend and React frontend. One approach is to create an Express server (for API calls to TAAPI, LunarCrush, etc. and for hosting predictions) and a React app build. If using Replit’s newer “React” template, it may be a single frontend. You might restructure into a combined Node.js project: put React build output in a public folder and serve it with Express’s static middleware. For example, build your React app (perhaps using Vite or Create React App), then have Express serve the static files and also define API routes (like /api/predict which your frontend calls to get model results). This ensures the app runs as one service (Replit will expose one web server on a port). TensorFlow.js can run either in the browser (for lighter ML tasks) or in Node.js (there is @tensorflow/tfjs-node for accelerated backend). If your model is heavy and you want to keep it server-side, you can load a TensorFlow.js model in the Node Express process and expose prediction endpoints. Best practice: keep any heavy secret (like API keys or heavy compute) on the server side, and call those from the React frontend via relative /api calls. This also prevents exposing keys to end users. Replit can handle an Express server and React app concurrently as long as they’re the same Node process or you use Replit’s multiprocess feature. Simpler is one process: serve static React build and have API routes.
CI/CD with GitHub Actions: To maintain code and deploy seamlessly, you can use GitHub for version control and Actions for deployment. Replit now has git integration – you can link your Repl to a GitHub repo. One method: develop on Replit, and use the Replit GUI to commit changes to Git. Alternatively, push code from local to GitHub, and then pull changes into Replit (there’s an “Import from GitHub” feature). For automated deployment, consider the Repl.deploy GitHub Action or App. There is a community GitHub Action that can deploy to Replit whenever you push to main. Essentially, it uses a Replit API token to push your code into the Repl. Replit’s official blog mentions “Replit Deployments” for a production version of your app and ways to trigger them from CI. You can set up an Action in your repo YAML that, on push, uses your Replit API key (stored in GitHub secrets) to update the Repl. Another approach: If that’s complex, you might simply use GitHub as backup and do manual pulls. For a small project, manual deployment is fine; but as you iterate, automating it saves time.
Replit Gotchas and Best Practices: On Replit, ensure your server listens on the correct port (usually use process.env.PORT). Replit sets environment variables for ports. Also, you might use the always-on feature (if you have Hacker plan) to keep the app running, or set up UptimeRobot pings if on free plan to prevent sleep. For background tasks like scheduled data fetches (say updating your model or pulling new data periodically), you could use node-cron within the Express app (Replit will run it as long as the repl is awake). Manage your node modules properly in package.json – Replit will auto-install. If you use Python for any part (less likely here since JS is primary), note that Replit can run a Python repl separately, but integrating both would be tricky. It’s easier to stick to one language in the deployed app (Node/JS).
Express & TensorFlow.js Deployment: If using TensorFlow.js in Node, use the TFJS Node package for better performance (it utilizes TensorFlow C library). This requires adding @tensorflow/tfjs-node to your dependencies. Keep in mind it’s a heavy package. Replit’s default disk might be enough, but watch for memory usage. If instead you offload ML to the client with TensorFlow.js in-browser, you can serve the model files (saved model or weights) from the backend static files and load in the browser – this shifts computation to the user’s device (which might be fine for smaller models like a few LSTM layers). The decision might depend on responsiveness vs. resource usage on your Repl.
Security: Do not expose your API keys to the frontend. Use the backend to call TAAPI, LunarCrush, etc. (e.g., your Express route /api/ta-signals calls TAAPI with your secret, and returns the data to the front-end). This keeps keys safe. Also enable CORS on Express if you serve API to a different domain (if same domain (Replit) serving frontend, you’re fine). Replit apps are public by default – if you have any admin interface, consider adding simple auth or at least obscurity.
Following these practices, you can code on Replit smoothly and deploy updates via Git. The Replit environment can act as both your development and production environment for this project. By setting up proper secrets management and CI, you ensure your app stays updated and secure. Enjoy building and may your Solana prediction model be accurate and insightful!